---
layout: post
title: Mines and Mares
date: 2026-05-23 15:21 -0400
tags:
- NetHack
- Gaming
- Dead
categories:
- NetHack
- Simbian
---

# We bid Minetown farewell

...as Benji & I continue deeper into the mines. On more than one occasion I encounter a polymorph trap that changes my iron boots into snow boots, and vice versa. I didn't know polymorph traps target your boots now, but it's much better than turning into a creature that destroys all my armor. As we slay the odd gnome and dwarf lord, I start paying attention to my HP being in the single digits. This forced out my first prayer of the game, though there will be many more.

We make our way to Mine's End - the catacombs - and begin the hunt for the Luckstone. Several vampires (including a lord), numerous undead giants, and a grey unicorn (damn the horses in this game) nearly kill me on multiple occasions, leading to at least 2 more prayers, but I locate the Luckstone in one of the small closets. I step on the teleporter trap it rests on, getting sent a few levels up, and as I make my way back something dawns on me...

*Benji is missing.*

I check a few levels above me, up to Minetown, and every level back down to Mine's End with no sight of him. I *do* find another grey stone on the ground which is neither a loadstone or touchstone as I've identified them both, so I mark it as flint and move on in my search for Benji. In my second trek through the catacombs I realize just how bad the AC problem with monk is. While I deal significant damage, I'm also getting hit by just about every monster that can get near me. Despite the deficiencies I still manage to grab the Luckstone, which is now named flint. This can only mean that *the random grey stone I found a few levels above was also a Luckstone!* I can't imagine the need for two of them, but quite lucky nonetheless.

I continue to search for Benji as I bring all of my loot back to Minetown, which takes two trips. On my return, I get to work determining the BUC of all of the items (I managed to luck into some Unholy Water) and price ID all of my scrolls, potions, and armor. I decide that I should create a stash near the priest until I find an aligned altar, and go to grab a nearby chest. At this exact moment, my ancient enemy - the horse - arrives with a vengeance. Probably for killing that unicorn earlier. In a mere three turns it manages bring me down to single digit HP.

And as I watch my prayer to Huan Ti fail, I fall yet again to an equine. Add it to the counter, I suppose.